OpenXCAP
--------

Copyright (c) 2007 AG Projects 
http://ag-projects.com

Author: Mircea Amarascu

License
-------

See LICENSE file.


Project description
-------------------

XCAP protocol allows a client to read, write, and modify application
configuration data stored in XML format on a server. XCAP maps XML document
sub-trees and element attributes to HTTP URIs, so that these components can
be directly accessed by HTTP. An XCAP server is used by the XCAP clients to
store data like Presence policy in combination with a SIP Presence server
that supports PUBLISH/SUBSCRIBE/NOTIFY methods to provide a complete
[http://www.tech-invite.com/Ti-sip-WGs.html#wg-simple SIP SIMPLE] server
solution.

The XCAP server is used as a policy decision maker by the SIP Presence
server to manage the subscriptions and notifications of presence information
based on end-user controlled preferences. The XCAP server can also be used
to publish to SIP devices information retrieved from external sources and
using different APIs acting like a bridge between real-time communications
based on SIP protocol and other web technologies like SOAP/XML.

OpenXCAP is an open source, easy extensible, fully featured XCAP server with
TLS security and support for multiple realms. The server is written in
Python programming language and is based on the following RFCs:

    * The Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration Access Protocol
    (XCAP) [http://www.tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4825 RFC 4825]

    * Formats for Representing Resource Lists
    [http://www.tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4826 RFC 4826]
    
    * Usage for Manipulating Presence Document Contents
    [http://www.tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4827 RFC 4827]
    
    * Presence Authorization Rules
    [http://tech-invite.com/SIPWGs/03-WG-SIMPLE/Drafts/draft-ietf-simple-presence-rules-10.txt
    draft-ietf-simple-presence-rules-10]


Features
--------

Supported XCAP applications

    * Resource lists (auid = resource-lists). A resource lists application
    is any application that needs access to a list of resources, identified
    by a URI, to which operations, such as subscriptions, can be applied.

    * RLS Services (auid = rls-services). A Resource List Server (RLS)
    services application is Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) application
    whereby a server receives SIP SUBSCRIBE requests for resource, and
    generates subscriptions towards the resource list.

    * PIDF Manipulation (auid = pidf-manipulation). Pidf-manipulation
    application usage defines how XCAP is used to manipulate the contents of
    PIDF based presence documents.

    * Presence Rules (auid = presence-rules). A Presence Rules application
    is an application which uses authorization policies, also known as
    authorization rules, to specify what presence information can be given
    to which watchers, and when.


Data storage

OpenXCAP server supports multiple back-end storage systems and works out of
the box with [http://openser.org OpenSER Proxy/Registrar/Presence] server.


XCAP clients
------------

No server is useful without clients supporting their features. Here is list
with XCAP clients known to be working with OpenXCAP:

    * [http://openser.org OpenSER]
    * simple-soap-proxy (under development). This client allows publication of arbitrary information and policy management using an easy to use SOAP/XML interface
    * Eyebeam from [http://www.counterpath.com/eyebeam-overview.html Counterpath]


Support
-------

OpenXCAP has been started as a graduating thesis by Mircea Amarascu at the
Polytechnic University of Bucharest in the spring of 2007 and is supported
via the wiki collaboration system from http://openxcap.org.

For OpenSER users and interactions beetween OpenXCAP and OpenSER please
consult also the http://openser.org/pipermail/users/ OpenSER users mailing
list.

